## How to Fix App Data if You Used the Version That Introduced Dark Mode

Did you happen to use the version mentioned in the title?
The one we released alongside mod version 0.11.1?

Good, there's a small problem: all the events you created with that version are likely broken. Read this document carefully.

---

### Brief Explanation

You need to delete all the events created with that version from the `server_data.json` file, and put an integer larger than the number of events you've created so far into the `last_id.txt` file.

---

### Detailed Explanation

#### Introduction

Before explaining the issue, it's necessary to understand how the program works.
When you create the first event, two files are generated in the program's folder (originally, now they are created in the `data` subfolder):
- `server_data.json`: contains the events read by the mod, along with all related information.
- `last_id.txt`: contains the number of events created (note: **created**, not triggered in-game) since you first launched the program.

These two files are read once when the program starts and are updated whenever an event is created (both files) or when an existing event is modified/deleted (only for `server_data.json`).

Each time an event is created, it is assigned an ID of the format `event_type-last_id`, where `last_id` corresponds to the number in `last_id.txt` + 1.
Since the mod does not execute events with IDs it has already seen in the past, this ensures all events are uniquely identified.

#### The Bug

Here's the issue with that particular version: in the broken release, the `last_id.txt` file was not loaded on startup. As a result, it was reset to 0 every time the program started.

Here's an example: let's say it's your first session using the program. You open the web app and create the first event to spawn a researcher's tent in the mod user's world.
The `server_data.json` file will generate an event like this (for details on the format, see [here](https://github.com/filloax/ruins-of-growsseth/wiki/EN-%E2%80%90-Gamemaster-Api), though it's not strictly necessary):

```jsonc
{
    "id": "structure-1",        // The ID is here
    "type": "structure",
    "structure": "growsseth:researcher_tent",
    "x": 0,
    "y": 100,
    "z": 0,
    "active": false,
    "rotation": "none"
}
```

After doing this, you let the player with the mod continue as usual. You don't use the web app anymore, and you turn off the PC. The next day, you play again and decide to spawn a mushrooms cave beneath the tent:

```jsonc
{
    "id": "structure-1",        // This didn't increment to 2!
    "type": "structure",
    "structure": "growsseth:cave_camp",
    "x": 0,
    "y": 0,
    "z": 0,
    "active": false,
    "rotation": "none"
}
```

As you can see, because the ID reset to 0, the new event was also assigned ID 1! The mod will read `"id": "structure-1"` and ignore it because it already executed an event with the same ID the day before.
In your case, you probably noticed that many events were not executed by the mod, and this is the reason.

#### The Solution

Fortunately, there's a fix. First, update the site using either this repository's version or the fixed version re-released in the mod's repository. Then, transfer the `server_data.json` and `last_id.txt` files from the broken version to the new one (place them in the `data` subfolder if you're using this repository's version). Open these files in your favorite text editor and follow these steps:
- In `server_data.json`, delete all the events created with the broken version. You'll lose the history of events, even those that worked, but this ensures everything displayed on the site has actually been recorded by the mod, and you won't get confused in the future. Alternatively, you can keep the events you remember as executed.
- In `last_id.txt`, insert a number higher than the total number of events you believe you've created since the beginning. If you're unsure, use something like 100 or 1000, and you should be fine.

Once done, start the webapp and everything should work. Ask the player you're playing with to run a quick test, such as you sending them a notification, closing the app from the terminal, reopening it, and creating a new notification. If they receive the second notification, the issue is resolved.
